{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1. Which two branches of civil law have most relevance in the context of insurance?\
A. Contract and property.\
B. Contract and torts.\
C. Property and trusts.\
D. Torts and trusts.\
\
2. Minor civil cases relating to personal injury claims are usually dealt with by the\
A. County Courts.\
B. Court of Appeal.\
C. Divisional Courts of the High Court.\
D. Magistrates Courts.\
\
3. What legal personality best describes a person who is subject to a bankruptcy order?\
A. A corporation sole.\
B. A juristic person.\
C. A member of an unincorporated association.\
D. A natural legal person.\
\
4. Which is a characteristic of criminal procedure?\
A. A criminal court case is a contest between the prosecution and the defence.\
B. Criminal proceedings follow the continental European inquisitorial system.\
C. Guilt of a crime must be proven on the 'balance of probabilities'.\
D. The legal process for criminal cases is trial by judge and jury.\
\
5. In negligence, what standard of care would be required of a newly-qualified electrician?\
A. The standard for the electrical profession only.\
B. The standard for the electrical profession but with an allowance for level of experience.\
C. The standard of a prudent man.\
D. The standard of a reasonable man.\
\
6. One of the requirements for a claimant to succeed in an action for trespass to the person is\
A. intention.\
B. negligence.\
C. prescription.\
D. recklessness.\
\
7. What is the common law remedy for the tort of nuisance?\
A. Exemplary damages.\
B. General damages.\
C. An injunction.\
D. Restitution.\
\
8. A gardener who was entitled to \'a32,000 under a contract with a private client assigned her rights under the contract to one of her plant suppliers. To be legally valid as a statutory assignment, this assignment must be\
A. absolute.\
B. conditional.\
C. a contract under seal.\
D. supported by consideration.\
\
9. After what period of time does an action for breach of a simple contract become statute-barred if the action is NOT in respect of personal injuries?\
A. 1 year.\
B. 3 years.\
C. 6 years.\
D. 12 years.\
\
10. A gratuitous promise is contractually valid and binding on the promissor when it is\
A. accepted by a minor.\
B. a domestic or social arrangement.\
C. presented in writing.\
D. in the form of a deed.\
\
11. An agent may be able to protect his rights to remuneration and indemnity by\
A. accepting commission from both parties to a transaction.\
B. accounting for the principal's money separately.\
C. exercising a lien on the principal's property.\
D. signing a negotiable instrument on behalf of the principal.\
\
12. A secretary regularly books accommodation at a particular hotel on behalf of her employer. On one occasion, she also booked a hotel room for her husband and herself without her employer's permission. What principle of agency law could make the employer liable to the hotel for payment of the room charge?\
A. Breach of warranty of authority.\
B. Implied actual authority.\
C. Ostensible authority.\
D. Ratification by an undisclosed principal.\
\
13. An agent for a disclosed principal commits the tort of deceit by knowingly making false statements to a third party. Who, if anyone, is liable if the third party suffers a financial loss as a result of these statements?\
A. No one.\
B. The agent only.\
C. The principal only.\
D. Both the agent and the principal.\
\
14. When is insurable interest required in respect of a life insurance contract?\
A. At both the time the contract is made and when a claim arises on death or maturity of the policy.\
B. Only at the time the contract is made.\
C. Only when a claim arises on death or maturity of the policy.\
D. Throughout the duration of the contract.\
\
15. During the period of insurance of a commercial policy, the policyholder acquires a subsidiary company for which cover is required under the policy. What specific legal duty of disclosure, applies, if any, in respect of this additional risk at the date of acquisition?\
A. The duty to make a fair representation of the additional risk.\
B. The duty to take reasonable care not to misrepresent the additional risk.\
C. None, as the acquisition is not a material fact.\
D. None, as the duty of disclosure only applies at the renewal date.\
\
16. In consumer insurance law, a proposer for personal accident insurance is under a duty to\
A. disclose all material facts relating to the contract.\
B. make a fair representation of the risk.\
C. take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.\
D. warrant that all answers on the proposal form are accurate.\
\
17. The subject matter of an insurance policy CANNOT be\
A. a future inheritance.\
B. a loss of profits.\
C. intangible property.\
D. the life of another person.\
\
18. Mia wishes to effect a life insurance policy on her husband's life and on her adult son's life. What is the maximum sum insured, if any, legally allowable under each policy?\
A. An unlimited amount in respect of both policies.\
B. An unlimited amount in respect of Mia's husband and a nominal amount in respect of her son.\
C. An unlimited amount in respect of Mia's husband and she is not legally allowed to insure the life of her son.\
D. Mia is not legally allowed to insure the life of either her husband or her son.\
\
19. The risk manager of a large construction company forgot to notify his property insurer that one of the contracts his company was accepting would involve hazardous work. In the event of a claim arising from this one contract, the insurer has the statutory legal remedy of\
A. applying any different terms relating to hazardous work as if the insurance policy had contained these terms.\
B. applying any different terms relating to hazardous work with effect from the date of the claim.\
C. terminating the insurance policy from inception with no refund of premium.\
D. terminating the insurance policy from the date of starting the hazardous work.\
\
20. A policyholder makes a claim for damage to his motor vehicle. After investigation, the insurer discovers the vehicle was being used by the policyholder in a criminal act. In these circumstances, the insurance policy is\
A. valid and the claim will be paid.\
B. valid but the claim will be rejected.\
C. void.\
D. voidable at the option of the insurer.\
\
21. Special rules apply to employers' liability insurance in respect of the\
A. applicability of basis of contract clauses.\
B. avoidance of liability for breach of condition or warranty.\
C. effect of a lack of insurable interest.\
D. range of remedies following a misrepresentation.\
\
22. An example of a continuing warranty in an insurance contract is one that may require\
A. an ongoing duty of disclosure throughout the period of a professional indemnity policy.\
B. a quarterly declaration of shipments to enable the calculation of a marine cargo premium adjustment.\
C. a security alarm system being operational whenever a property is unattended.\
D. no admission of liability being made in the event of a gradual pollution claim.\
\
23. In what type of contracts, if any, is the use of basis of the contract clauses legally permitted?\
A. In consumer insurance policies only.\
B. In non-consumer insurance policies only.\
C. In both consumer and non-consumer insurance policies.\
D. In neither consumer nor non-consumer insurance policies.\
\
24. What remedy is available to an insurer where a commercial policyholder has breached a collateral condition concerning a minor matter?\
A. Avoid the policy ab initio.\
B. Apply terms retrospectively.\
C. Claim for damages.\
D. Repudiate any future claim.\
\
25. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, a contract term in an insurance policy will be considered unfair to the policyholder if it\
A. causes a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations to the detriment of the policyholder.\
B. defines a particularly narrow scope of cover in relation to the premium paid by the policyholder.\
C. is a standard term that the policyholder does not have the opportunity to individually negotiate.\
D. is ambiguous and one interpretation of the term is detrimental to the policyholder.\
\
26. A broker, acting for a commercial policyholder, is reviewing a policy wording drawn up by an insurer. The broker proposes an additional clause for insertion into the policy, which the insurer agrees to incorporate. Against which party to the contract will the clause be construed in the event of its ambiguity?\
A. The broker and the insurer equally.\
B. The broker and the policyholder equally.\
C. The insurer only.\
D. The policyholder only.\
\
27. An insurance contract would automatically become void in the event of\
A. bankruptcy of an agent.\
B. breach of warranty.\
C. illegality.\
D. misrepresentation.\
\
28. The basis of the burden of proof that a named insured peril was the proximate cause of the loss falls upon the\
A. policyholder to prove on the balance of probabilities.\
B. policyholder to prove beyond reasonable doubt.\
C. insurer to prove on the balance of probabilities.\
D. insurer to prove beyond reasonable doubt.\
\
29. When two perils are described as interdependent, this means that they combine to cause a loss\
A. and either peril would cause some loss without the other.\
B. but neither peril can be an uninsured or an excepted peril.\
C. but neither peril would cause some loss on its own.\
D. but only one peril is operating or imminent.\
\
30. What is the effect of a clause in an insurance contract that excludes losses directly or indirectly caused by acts of terrorism?\
A. Terrorism cover cannot be provided by a separate buy-back policy.\
B. Terrorism is an uninsured peril in relation to concurrent causes.\
C. Terrorism must be the proximate cause of the loss in order for the exclusion to operate.\
D. Terrorism need only be a remote cause of the loss in order for the exclusion to operate.\
\
31. A policy condition requiring the policyholder to give notice of a loss and also any incident or event which may give rise to a claim, is most relevant in an insurance policy covering\
A. personal accident.\
B. professional liabilities.\
C. property damage.\
D. travel risks.\
\
32. What statute permits the third party victim of a motor accident to make a direct claim against the motor insurer of the negligent driver who caused the accident?\
A. The Consumer Protection Act 1987.\
B. The Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999.\
C. The Road Traffic Act 1988.\
D. The Third Parties (Rights against Insurers) Act 2010.\
\
33. If a policyholder wishes to take out a life insurance policy insuring their own life expressly for the benefit of a third party, they can arrange this legally by\
A. appointing the third party as sole executor to their will.\
B. establishing a trust for the third party.\
C. naming the third party on the policy as an additional insured.\
D. noting the interest of the third party on the policy as bailee.\
\
34. A fire destroys a business premises and the policyholder receives payment of the full sum insured from his property insurer. If the new premises are rebuilt on the same site during the current policy period, insurance for the premises will be arranged under\
A. a new policy at new terms.\
B. an endorsement to the existing policy for an additional premium.\
C. the existing policy subject to a reinstatement premium.\
D. the existing policy at no additional premium.\
\
35. Which insurance policy can make a deduction for betterment?\
A. An agreed value policy for a vintage car.\
B. A new for old household contents insurance policy.\
C. A personal accident insurance policy.\
D. A property insurance policy for business machinery.\
\
36. Sum insured at the time of loss x amount of loss / Value at risk at the time of loss. Which insurance principle is supported by the above formula to calculate the liability of the insurer?\
A. Contribution using the independent liability method.\
B. The Elcock principle for partial losses under an agreed value policy.\
C. The pro rata condition of average.\
D. Subrogation where the recovery from the third party is less than the loss.\
\
37. It is usual for an insurer to insert a subrogation waiver clause into a contract to agree with a policyholder that the insurer will NOT exercise subrogation rights against\
A. other insurers.\
B. reinsurers.\
C. subsidiary companies of the policyholder.\
D. any third parties.\
\
38. A policyholder's motor vehicle has suffered damage caused by a negligent third party. The damage cost \'a3900 to repair with the insurer making payment of \'a3800 after deduction of the \'a3100 policy excess. The insurer recovered \'a3500 from the negligent motorist. How will this \'a3500 recovery be distributed?\
A. The policyholder is entitled to \'a3100 and the insurer \'a3400.\
B. The policyholder is entitled to \'a3200 and the insurer \'a3300.\
C. The policyholder is entitled to the full \'a3500.\
D. The insurer is entitled to the full \'a3500.\
\
39. The maximum liability method of calculating contribution operates, but with unfair results, if only one of the relevant policies\
A. has additional named insureds.\
B. includes a subrogation clause.\
C. is a policy of indemnity.\
D. is subject to a policy excess.\
\
40. Two property insurance policies cover the same loss but the policy terms and conditions differ. Following a claim, which method of calculating contribution is most likely to be used?\
A. The average method.\
B. The independent liability method.\
C. The maximum liability method.\
D. The reinstatement method.\
\
41. A persuasive precedent may be set by (Select all that apply)\
A. a decision made in the lower courts.\
B. a decision made by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.\
C. a local custom.\
D. obiter dicta of senior judges in a high-level decision.\
E. the ratio decidendi of a previous case with similar issues.\
\
42. What roles are typically carried out by solicitors in England and Wales? (Select all that apply)\
A. Drawing up contracts for the sale or purchase of property.\
B. Providing a specialist advocacy service in the higher courts.\
C. Giving opinions on complex or niche areas of law.\
D. Offering professional advice on matters of family law.\
E. Representing corporate clients in the lower courts.\
\
43. Which torts are actionable per se? (Select all that apply)\
A. Assault.\
B. False imprisonment.\
C. Negligent misstatement.\
D. Private nuisance.\
E. Trespass to land.\
\
44. An employers' liability insurance policy can be classified as being a type of (Select all that apply)\
A. bilateral contract.\
B. collateral contract.\
C. contract under seal.\
D. simple contract.\
E. unilateral contract.\
\
45. When may an agent be legally allowed to delegate contractual duties to a sub-agent without the express permission of the principal? (Select all that apply)\
A. In accordance with trade custom.\
B. Only if the sub-agent is based overseas.\
C. Out of necessity.\
D. Whenever it is cheaper to do so.\
\
46. What statutory remedy is available to an insurer where a qualifying misrepresentation, which is careless, has been made by a consumer policyholder? (Select all that apply)\
A. Amend the contract terms from those originally agreed.\
B. Avoid the contract and keep any premium paid.\
C. Maintain the contract but avoid any claims relating to the misrepresentation.\
D. Proportionately reduce the amount to be paid on a claim if a higher premium would have been charged.\
\
47. A key element of insurable interest is that in relation to the subject matter of the insurance, the policyholder must have (Select all that apply)\
A. a current interest.\
B. an expectation of acquiring an interest.\
C. a financial interest.\
D. a legal interest.\
E. the sole interest.\
\
48. Which rules apply to deal with issues regarding inconsistencies or contradictions in policy wordings? (Select all that apply)\
A. An express term overrules or modifies any implied term.\
B. An implied term overrules or modifies any express term.\
C. Handwritten endorsements take priority over printed words in a policy document.\
D. A policy document takes priority over a proposal form.\
\
49. Which items are most commonly insured on an agreed value basis? (Select all that apply)\
A. Antiques.\
B. Golf clubs.\
C. Household appliances.\
D. Ships.\
E. Works of art.\
\
50. The operation of the principle of subrogation, and the way in which any recovery from a third party is shared between the policyholder and the insurers, depends on (Select all that apply)\
A. the amount of the recovery in relation to the loss.\
B. the time when subrogation rights arise.\
C. whether the insurance covers the loss in full.\
D. whether there is a non contribution clause.\
\
ANSWERS AND LEARNING OUTCOMES\
\
1 B 1.1\
2 A 1.2\
3 D 1.5\
4 A 1.4\
5 A 2.2\
6 A 2.2\
7 B 2.2\
8 A 3.9\
9 C 3.6\
10 D 3.2\
11 C 4.2\
12 C 4.4\
13 D 4.2\
14 B 5.3\
15 A 5.4\
16 C 5.5\
17 A 5.2\
18 C 5.6\
19 A 5.4\
20 C 6.3\
21 B 6.2\
22 C 6.1\
23 D 6.1\
24 C 6.2\
25 A 6.1\
26 D 6.1\
27 C 6.2\
28 A 7.2\
29 C 7.4\
30 D 7.4\
31 B 7.2\
32 C 7.1\
33 B 7.1\
34 A 8.6\
35 D 8.2\
36 C 8.3\
37 C 9.3\
38 D 9.6\
39 D 9.5\
40 B 9.5\
41 A,B,D 1.6\
42 A,D,E 1.3\
43 A,B,E 2.1\
44 A,D 3.1\
45 A,C 4.2\
46 A,D 5.5\
47 A,C,D 5.2\
48 A,C,D 6.1\
49 A,D,E 8.3\
50 A,C 9.1}