{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1. The final court of appeal for a number of commonwealth countries is the\
A. Crown Court.\
B. High Court.\
C. Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.\
D. Supreme Court.\
\
2. The Marine Insurance Act 1906 is an example of\
A. a codifying act.\
B. delegated legislation.\
C. international legislation.\
D. a retrospective act.\
\
3. A 'litigation friend' ('next friend') is responsible for litigation costs awarded against a claimant who is a\
A. bankrupt.\
B. company.\
C. partnership.\
D. minor.\
\
4. The rule in Rylands v Fletcher may apply when there is\
A. a defamatory statement.\
B. fault or negligence by the defendant.\
C. a negligent misstatement.\
D. an escape of a dangerous thing from the defendant's land.\
\
5. For which tort is the claimant never required to prove that he has suffered loss or damage?\
A. Negligence.\
B. Nuisance.\
C. Slander.\
D. Trespass.\
\
6. Katy's mother bought her an iron, which turned out to be defective and caused a fire. It resulted in damage to Katy's personal property amounting to \'a3500 and also caused severe burns to Katy's right hand. In order to achieve a recovery at law, which legal action should be pursued?\
A. Katy's mother should sue the seller in tort based on the principle of negligence.\
B. Katy should sue her mother based on the principle of vicarious liability.\
C. Katy should sue the manufacturer based on the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act 1987.\
D. Katy should sue the seller for breach of contract in selling a defective electrical product.\
\
7. An insurance policy would be illegal and void if it is\
A. an employer's liability policy for a company without any employees.\
B. a household contents policy insuring a gun collection.\
C. a products liability policy covering fines for health and safety breaches.\
D. a marine cargo policy taken out by a person who is not the owner of the cargo.\
\
8. With regard to formation of a contract, consideration must always be a\
A. benefit to the person receiving it or a detriment to the person giving it.\
B. detriment to the person receiving it or a benefit to the person giving it.\
C. benefit to both the person giving it and the person receiving it.\
D. detriment to both the person giving it and the person receiving it.\
\
9. Adam had a contract with a specialist storage company to store some valuable paintings, but damp storage conditions resulted in damage to the paintings. Although Adam's contract did NOT expressly state the storage requirements had to be suitable, he successfully sued the storage company on the basis that the contract terms were implied\
A. by custom.\
B. by promissory estoppel.\
C. in fact.\
D. in law.\
\
10. A life insurance policy would automatically be void for illegality if\
A. the insured committed suicide after inception.\
B. there is no insurable interest at inception.\
C. the premium had not been paid at inception.\
D. the insurer became insolvent after inception.\
\
11. An insurance broker grants cover for motor insurance to a 21-year-old proposer. However, the broker's authority is restricted to only granting cover to drivers aged 23 years and over. What basis, if at all, is the insurer bound to cover the 21-year-old?\
A. Agency by estoppel.\
B. Apparent authority.\
C. Implied actual authority.\
D. The insurer is not bound.\
\
12. Whilst Tim was on holiday, unknown to him his agent made a contract on his behalf. Tim is happy to ratify the contract but he does want to change a minor term. The services under the contract are scheduled to be carried out next week. What is the legal position regarding ratification of the contract?\
A. Tim cannot ratify the contract as it was made without his knowledge.\
B. Tim cannot ratify the contract excluding the minor term as the whole contract must be ratified.\
C. Tim can ratify the contract and change the term as it is only a minor term.\
D. Tim can ratify the contract and change the minor term if this is done within reasonable time.\
\
13. Alice acted as an agent for Ted in a house clearance sale and has successfully claimed commission by implied agreement. What does this indicate about the commission?\
A. It was agreed as it was based on a verbal agreement.\
B. It was agreed as it was detailed in an agency contract.\
C. It was not agreed, but Alice had a lien on Ted's property.\
D. It was not agreed, but Alice's work was in her usual line of business for which she would normally be paid.\
\
14. In respect of consumer insurance contracts, the duty of utmost good faith means that the\
A. broker has a duty to the proposer to find the widest coverage at the best price.\
B. broker and the insurer have a duty of confidentiality regarding contract information.\
C. proposer has a duty to disclose all material facts relating to the contract.\
D. proposer and the insurer have a duty to deal honestly and openly in negotiations leading to formation of the contract.\
\
15. Stuart has a joint mortgage with his wife of \'a360,000 and a personal loan of \'a35,000, but no other debts. How much insurable interest does his wife have in his life?\
A. A maximum of \'a330,000.\
B. A maximum of \'a360,000.\
C. A maximum of \'a365,000.\
D. An unlimited amount.\
\
16. A proposer for property insurance did NOT inform the insurer that his business premises were protected by a burglar alarm. What are the implications, if any, of this omission once the insurer is on risk and the premium is paid?\
A. None, as it is a factor that lessens the risk.\
B. The insurer is obliged to refund a proportion of the premium.\
C. The insurer can avoid the policy for non-disclosure.\
D. The insurer is obliged to quote revised premium terms to the proposer.\
\
17. When applying for a household contents insurance policy, the proposer deliberately provided the insurer with misleading information and so the insurer avoided the policy. In what circumstances, if any, is the insurer obliged to return the premium to the policyholder\
A. There is no obligation to return the premium.\
B. The premium exceeds a de minimis amount.\
C. It was an online application and premium payment.\
D. Retaining the premium would be unfair to the policyholder.\
\
18. Under English Law, the right to insure the life of another person arises if there is\
A. the authority of the Law Commission.\
B. the consent of the life assured.\
C. a financial relationship recognised at law.\
D. a relationship characterised by a close bond of natural affection.\
\
19. The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 abolished the duty of disclosure in consumer insurance and replaced it with the duty to take reasonable care NOT to make a\
A. fraudulent statement.\
B. misrepresentation.\
C. qualifying disclosure.\
D. representation.\
\
20. To what extent, if at all, does the duty of good faith apply to employers' liability insurance?\
A. It applies in exactly the same way as it does to all other non-consumer insurances.\
B. It does not apply as it is a compulsory class of insurance.\
C. It only applies at inception of the policy but is not revived at renewal.\
D. It only applies to large companies, defined as those with more than 50 employees.\
\
21. Under English law, an element of statutory control over the wording of consumer insurance policies is imposed by the\
A. Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012.\
B. Consumer Protection Act 1987.\
C. Consumer Rights Act 2015.\
D. Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977.\
\
22. The contractual term stating that a life insurance policy will NOT come into effect until the premium is paid is an example of\
A. a condition precedent to contract.\
B. a condition precedent to liability.\
C. a continuous warranty.\
D. an implied warranty.\
\
23. Why may an insurer insert a continuing warranty into an insurance policy?\
A. To avoid paying a loss if it is caused by a peril stated in the policy.\
B. To enable an insurer to charge an additional premium if the warranty is breached.\
C. To ensure that a full sum insured is declared to avoid underinsurance.\
D. To ensure that measures are taken to improve risk management.\
\
24. When an insured breaches a suspensive condition, for how long, if at all, is policy cover invalid?\
A. It is never invalid, but the insurer is entitled to damages.\
B. It is valid on condition that the insured describes the risk in reasonable time.\
C. It is invalid only for the period that the insured continues to breach the condition.\
D. It is invalid immediately and the policy is terminated from the date of the breach of the condition.\
\
25. Two policies were incepted and both were in joint names. Policy X was arranged by a lessor and lessee and policy Y was taken out by a married couple who have an equal share in their home. What are the likely types of policy X and policy Y?\
A. Policy X is a composite policy and policy Y is a joint policy.\
B. Policy X is a joint policy and policy Y is a composite policy.\
C. Both policy X and policy Y are composite.\
D. Both policy X and policy Y are joint.\
\
26. A clause in a company's professional indemnity policy enables the insurer to avoid paying for any losses when an insured admits responsibility for the loss. This type of clause is\
A. a condition precedent to contract.\
B. a condition precedent to liability.\
C. an express warranty.\
D. an implied warranty.\
\
27. A warranty in a household buildings insurance policy states that the chimney of the property should be professionally swept every year prior to winter use. A loss occurs as a result of severe winds and the chimney is damaged. How is the insurer legally entitled to respond to the claim for property damage to the chimney if the insured has breached the warranty?\
A. Avoid the claim but keep the policy in force.\
B. Reduce the claim payment pro rata.\
C. Reject the claim and terminate the policy.\
D. Settle the claim in full.\
\
28. A policyholder has a fire insurance policy which excludes storm and other perils. A fire broke out due to faulty machinery overheating. At the same time as the fire, a violent storm blew the roof off the buildings and caused a power cut so that the fire alarm did NOT operate which led to a more serious fire than would have occurred otherwise. For what damage, if any, would the fire insurers be liable?\
A. The fire damage only.\
B. The fire damage only less a reduction for the fire alarm being non-operational.\
C. The fire damage and the storm damage as they are concurrent causes.\
D. No damage.\
\
29. Joe has been injured in a motor accident. Under section 151 of the Road Traffic Act 1988, he has the right to make a direct claim against the insurer of the negligent driver, Sally, if he\
A. is a minor and has no contractual capacity.\
B. has an unsatisfied court judgment against Sally.\
C. has already had a claim against the Motor Insurers' Bureau rejected.\
D. was wearing a seat belt at the time of the accident and no contributory negligence applies.\
\
30. If an insurance claim is disputed and causation is an issue, what approach will a court take when looking to identify the proximate cause of the loss?\
A. It will accept the decision of the jury as guided on points of law by the judge.\
B. It will follow decisions made by international courts.\
C. It will rely on the common understanding of causation by a normal person.\
D. It will require proof of causation by scientific and/or technical means.\
\
31. Dan's insurer identified fire as the proximate cause of his insurance claim although the loss resulted from a series of perils. This indicates the insurer has judged that the fire must be the\
A. only insured peril.\
B. most dominant of the perils.\
C. first of the series of perils.\
D. last of the series of perils.\
\
32. Ian's speedboat suffered damage during a storm. The insurer identified that a design fault on the boat was a second and concurrent cause of the damage. Neither the storm nor the design fault would have caused the loss on its own. Ian's marine insurance policy provided cover against storm damage but the design fault was an uninsured peril. How, if at all, would Ian's insurer be liable for the claim?\
A. It would be liable for one half of the claim.\
B. It would be liable for the claim in full.\
C. It would only be liable for the portion of the claim caused by the storm.\
D. It would not be liable for the claim at all.\
\
33. Harry owns a vintage car which he insures on an agreed value basis. An expert valuation was accepted at inception. When the car was subsequently written off, why did Harry receive less than indemnity?\
A. The loss adjuster appointed by the insurer subsequently disputed the expert's valuation.\
B. An equivalent replacement was available at a lower price.\
C. The market value of an equivalent car had decreased.\
D. The market value of an equivalent car had increased.\
\
34. When Fred's yacht ran aground on rocks, but was NOT totally destroyed, he abandoned his rights to the yacht to his insurer. However, he did NOT serve a formal notice of abandonment on the insurer. If Fred submits a claim, the insurer is entitled to classify it as\
A. an actual total loss.\
B. a constructive total loss.\
C. a partial loss.\
D. salvage.\
\
35. Which type of insurance CANNOT have its annual limit of liability exhausted by a series of partial losses?\
A. An employers' liability policy.\
B. Motor third party bodily injury cover.\
C. A theft cover on stock.\
D. A products liability policy.\
\
36. Following the case of Lister v. Romford Ice and Cold Storage Ltd (1957), insurers generally agreed to\
A. give up their subrogation rights against workers who negligently injure their fellow employees in the course of employment.\
B. pursue subrogation rights against directors on the grounds of vicarious liability.\
C. use the independent liability method for the calculation of contribution.\
D. waive their subrogation rights between subsidiary and associated companies of an insured.\
\
37. Tina has an insurance policy which contains a contribution condition known as an escape clause. She takes out a second policy with another insurer, but despite the cover under the two policies overlapping, the original insurers do NOT avoid the policy using the escape clause. This is because\
A. both policies have an escape clause so they will both contribute equally.\
B. statute law prohibits the use of escape clauses.\
C. Tina has notified both insurers of the double insurance.\
D. Tina has obtained the consent of her insurers.\
\
38. An insurer is entitled to make a profit following an insured loss when\
A. the property is abandoned by the insured.\
B. contribution is received from another insurer.\
C. subrogation rights are exercised.\
D. settlement is by way of indemnity.\
\
39. Two liability policies with different insurers cover the same loss of \'a312,000. The limit of liability is \'a320,000 under policy X and \'a340,000 under policy Y. Neither policy is subject to average or has a non-contribution clause, but policy X is subject to a \'a34,000 excess. What amount will policy X contribute towards the claim payment?\
A. \'a32,000\
B. \'a34,000\
C. \'a34,800\
D. \'a37,200\
\
40. An insurer has paid a policyholder for fire damage to his home caused by an electrician's faulty work, less the policy excess. How should any subrogation action for damages be brought against the negligent electrician and for what amount(s)?\
A. By the insurer and the insured separately in their own names for the amount of the claim payment and the policy excess respectively.\
B. By the insurer only in its own name for the amount of the claim payment and the policy excess.\
C. By the insurer in the name of the insured for the amount of the claim payment only.\
D. By the insurer in the name of the insured for the amount of the claim payment and the policy excess.\
\
41. The UK Parliament consists of the (Select all that apply)\
A. House of Commons.\
B. House of Lords.\
C. Monarchy.\
D. Privy Council.\
E. Supreme Court.\
\
42. A 17-year-old in full-time education can (Select all that apply)\
A. be fully responsible for his criminal actions.\
B. be a beneficiary of a trust.\
C. be a member of a jury.\
D. make a valid will.\
E. own a house outright.\
\
43. Following a motor accident, an insured may be able to claim for special damages for (Select all that apply)\
A. damage to clothing.\
B. injury to feelings.\
C. loss of earnings.\
D. medical expenses.\
E. pain and suffering.\
\
44. In contract law, acceptance of an offer (Select all that apply)\
A. may be achieved by taking no action.\
B. may be implied by conduct.\
C. may vary the terms of the offer.\
D. must be made in writing.\
E. must exactly match the terms of the offer.\
\
45. An agency will be automatically terminated (Select all that apply)\
A. by lapse of time if the agreement was created for a specific period of time.\
B. by mutual agreement of the parties.\
C. by performance of the task specified in the agreement.\
D. on bankruptcy of the agent.\
E. on death of the principal.\
\
46. Which material circumstances do NOT need to be disclosed by a manufacturing company in an insurance proposal? (Select all that apply)\
A. Factors which lessen the risk.\
B. Details about a trade which the insurers regularly underwrite.\
C. Information which the insurer's risk survey should have revealed.\
D. Unusual features of a risk that the insurer's standard survey would not reveal.\
\
47. Common law rules for the interpretation of insurance policies include the (Select all that apply)\
A. application of a technical or legal meaning.\
B. contra proferentum rule.\
C. mischief rule.\
D. golden rule.\
\
48. What legal remedies are available to an insured who has suffered a loss as a result of an insurer's unreasonably late payment of a claim? (Select all that apply)\
A. Contractual damages.\
B. Interest on any sums due under the policy.\
C. Punitive damages.\
D. Specific performance.\
\
49. Which insurance terms and conditions can reduce a policyholder's entitlement to a full indemnity following a loss? (Select all that apply)\
A. An average clause.\
B. An insuring clause.\
C. A policy excess.\
D. A subrogation clause.\
\
50. An insurer's subrogation rights may arise (Select all that apply)\
A. following an ex gratia payment.\
B. in contract.\
C. in the tort of negligence.\
D. under estoppel.\
E. under statute.\
\
ANSWERS AND LEARNING OUTCOMES\
\
1 C 1.4\
2 A 1.2\
3 D 1.5\
4 D 2.2\
5 D 2.2\
6 C 2.5\
7 C 3.4\
8 A 3.2\
9 C 3.3\
10 B 3.4\
11 B 4.2\
12 B 4.4\
13 D 4.2\
14 D 5.4\
15 D 5.3\
16 A 5.4\
17 D 5.6\
18 C 5.3\
19 B 5.4\
20 A 5.4\
21 C 6.1\
22 A 6.1\
23 D 6.1\
24 C 6.2\
25 A 6.1\
26 B 6.1\
27 D 6.3\
28 A 7.6\
29 B 7.1\
30 C 7.4\
31 B 7.4\
32 B 7.6\
33 D 8.7\
34 C 8.6\
35 B 8.6\
36 A 9.3\
37 D 9.6\
38 A 9.3\
39 C 9.6\
40 D 9.6\
41 A,B,C 1.2\
42 A,B 1.5\
43 A,C,D 2.4\
44 B,E 3.2\
45 A,B,C,E 4.3\
46 A,B,C 5.4\
47 A,B 6.1\
48 A,B 7.2\
49 A,C 8.3\
50 B,C,E 9.2}